Is strength theory, really the answer. Where do you fall on this? Like,
how do you make sense of this puzzle? Why do you think it has fallen out.
Of favor? Yeah, so I don't, I would actually challenge the statement.
That's fallen out of favor.
I would say that any field of research when it's new and
it's the, the bright,
any bicycle that no one has yet seen on that block. Yeah.
It's gonna attract attention and, uh,
the news outlets are gonna cover it and students are gonna flock to it. Sure.
But as a, as a field matures,
it does shed those qualities because it's no longer as novel as it
was when it was, is first introduced 30, 40 years ago.
But you need to judge it by a different standard. You need to judge it by,
is it making progress on foundational issues,
deepening our understanding of the subject. And by that measure,
string theory is, is, is scoring very high.
Now at the same time you to need to judge whether it makes contact with
experiment as we discussed before, too. And in that measure,
we're still challenged. So I would say that many strength,
the myself included are,
are very sober about the theory. It,
it has the tremendous progress that it had 34 years ago that hasn't gone away,
but we've become better equipped at assessing
the long journey ahead.
And that was something that we weren't particularly good at back say in the
eighties, look, when I was just starting out in the field,
there was a sense of physics is about to end
string theory is about to be the be and all final unified theory.
And that will bring this chapter to a close. Now I have to say,
I think it was more the younger physicists who were saying that some of the more
seasoned, even if they were pro string theory at the time,
I don't know if they were rolling their eyes, but they knew, yeah,
it was gonna be a long, long journey. I think people like, you know,
John Schwartz, one of the founders of strength theory, Michael Green,
no relation to me, founders of the theory, uh, Edward Whitten, you know,
one of the main people drive in the theory back then,
and today I think they knew that we were in for a long
haul. And,
and that's the nature of science quick hits that resolve everything few
and far between.
And so if you were in for the quick
solution to the big questions of the world, then you would've been disappointed.
And I think there were people who were disappointed and moved on and work on
other subjects. If you were in, in,
in the way that Einstein was in for a lifetime of investigation,
to try to see where, what the answers to the deep questions would be.
Then I think strength theory has been a rich source of,
of material that has kept so many people deeply engaged in moving
the frontier forward.
There's a few qualities about strength theory, which are weird. I mean,
a lot of physics is just weird and beautiful. So let me ask the question.
What do you as most beautiful about in.
Theory? Well, but, uh,
what attracted me to the theory at the outset beyond
it's putting gravity and quantum mechanics together, which I think is, um,
it's true claim to fame, at least on paper, it's able to do that.
What attracted me to theory was the fact that it requires extra dimensions of
space mm-hmm <affirmative>.
And this was an idea that intrigued me in a,
in a very deep way, even before I really understood what it meant.
I somehow had. I mean,
talk about sort of the emotional part of consciousness and the cognitive part in
some, perhaps you call it strange in some strange, emotional way.
I was enamored with, with Einstein's general relativity,
the idea of curve space and time before I really knew what it meant.
It just spoke to me. I don't know how else to say it mm-hmm <affirmative>.
And then when I subsequently learned that people had thought about
more dimensions of space than we can see and how those extra dimensions would be
vital to a deep understanding of the things that we do see in this world, 4, 5,
6 dimensions might explain why there are certain forces and particles and how
they behave to me. This was like amazing, totally amazing.
And then when I learned that strength theory embraced all these ideas,
embraced the general theory of relativity embraced quantum acts embraced the PO
stability of extra dimensions. Then I was then I was hooked.
And so when I was a graduate student, we would just spend hours. Uh,
we, I mean, a couple of other graduate students and myself who had a,
have sort of worked really well together. So at Oxford and England, we would,
we would work these enormous numbers of hours a day,
trying to understand the shapes of these extra dimensions, the geometry of them,
what those geometrical shapes for the extra dimensions would imply for things
that we see in the world around us. And it was a,
it was a heady heady time and,
and that kind of excitement has sort of filtered through over the decades.
But I'd say that's really the,
the part of the theory that I think really hooked me most strongly.